Hi! Welcome to the classroom seating arrangement. This will be a detailed instruction on how to use the program. If you find any difficulty and find problems with the program, please email me at johnjlcms@gmail.com.

SHORTCUT FEATURES:
*Use control F to jump to locations
INTR = Intro
SWLK = Simple Walkthrough
HTUP = How to use Program
HTUC = How to use Class Text Document
HUHR = How to use helper text document
HUHP = How to use helpee text document
HTUN = How to use naughtyList text document
STPR = Seeing the program run
FFTF = Features for the Future
THNK = Thanks

[INTR] Intro:

In this program, the class you will be running is Main. In main, just click the run button. The program should run but do nothing or crash as there is nothing filled the other respective text documents: class, helpees, helpers, naughtylist. Don't worry about the files, Devlog and seatingArrangement for now.

[SWLK] Simple walkthrough of program:

The program obtains a list of students, a group of academic students that can help others, a group of less academic students that need help, and groups of students that disrupt class when seated together. It then randomly generates a random seating arrangement that pairs a helper with a helpee and prevents the groups of students from the naughtylist from sitting together.

[HTUP] How to use the program:

Since the program is based off of input data, all that needs to be done is to fill the files of class, helpees, helpers, naughtylist with your own students. How to fill the files will be detailed below.

[HTUC] How to use class text document:

Open the class file by double clicking on it. Just input the first names of students in one class. If two students have the same name, you can find a way to distiguish them such as adding a their last initial to their name. Input the first student's name right away, then hit the enter button, enter the next name and repeat until all the student names are entered. Make sure to save when you are done and close the file.

Ex. 

John
Joanna
Bob
David
Emily

[HUHR] How to use helper text document:

Open the helper file by double clicking on it. Same as using class, input the first names of students in one class. If two students have the same name, you can find a way to distiguish them such as adding a their last initial to their name. Input the first student's name right away, then hit the enter button, enter the next name and repeat until all the student names are entered. Make sure to save when you are done and close the file. Remeber, these are people you beleive can help other students in the class.

[HUHP] How to use helpee text document:

Open the helpee file by double clicking on it. Same as using class,i nput the first names of students in one class. If two students have the same name, you can find a way to distiguish them such as adding a their last initial to their name. Input the first student's name right away, then hit the enter button, enter the next name and repeat until all the student names are entered. Make sure to save when you are done and close the file. Remeber, these are people you beleive need help in the class.

[HTUN] How to use naughtyList text document:

Naughtiness(disruptivness) is a feature I have decided would be a feature of muliple students. A single student can be disruptive all by themselves but since you can't make a single student sit by themselves so they are not disruptive, the naughtiness in my program is when you don't want two or more people sitting together.

Now, to use the naughtyList file, not everyone is disruptive with everyone. However, there can be mulitple groups of students that cannot sit together in their own group but would not be disruptive when seated with other students in

To enter groups of naughty students and what students are in each group, enter the students of the naughty group seperated by a comma. When that group is done, hit enter and start entering the next group of naughty students right away.

Ex.

John, Mark, Derek
Joanna, Emily, Sarah
Luke, Logan

**** As you can see, John Mark and Derek are disruptive together so my code will make sure none of them sit together but it would be fine for Derek to sit the Sarah. Please only put one student per naughty group. Do not do something like put Logan in two naughtygroups as the repeated name might cause an error.

Ex. of what not to do

John, Mark, Derek, Logan
Joanna, Emily, Sarah
Luke, Logan

[STPR] Seeing the program run:

If you have not entered names into Class, the program will not run. If you do not have helpers, helpees, or naughtList entered, the code will work fine. Now, you can click the run button, (Green Circle with a White Triangle in the Middle). A few words should appear in the consule, what programers use to display some information.

Enter the size of your table such as 2,3,4, etc and the program will run. If the program does not stop in around 10 seconds, click the red square button to terminate the program. Then re-run the program. The reason for this issue is that due to random chance, the permutation where students cannot sit together are not working out so you need to re-run the program. Now, in a few seconds, the program should output the students sitting in which table. The output will also be outputted to the "seatingArrangement" text document which you can open and copy and save into another pastable place if you wish. That is how to code works! If you are still confused, just send me an email and I will get back to you as soon as I can or even come in person to help you understand my program. Apologies for any difficulties.

[FFTF] Features for the future:

*** If any part of the walkthough is unclear, please contact and me I will try to write better instructions. 

Some more features that may or may not be implemented is:

Be able to track past seating arrangments to make the new arragnments not the same.
Have a feature to place students that sit in the front to sit in the front.

[THNK] Thanks:

Thank you for reading all the way to the bottom. It means a lot to a walkthrough writer and coder. Of course, this program would never exist or have meaning without you. And there would be no point for me to code this program if you didn't use it. Thank You.